# Data visualization
## Treemap developed for the International Telecommunication Unionto explore data on Internet users worldwide

### <a href="https://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Statistics/Pages/stat/treemap.aspx">https://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Statistics/Pages/stat/treemap.aspx/</a>

<p> ITU collects statistics on several ICT developments, being one of the most important indicators the one measuring "Internet users" (e.g. it is included in the Sustainable Development Goals' global indicator framework). ITU wants to draw attention to the population connected (and also to those not yet connected) by informing on questions such as: How many are they? Where are they? What is the situation today compared to six years ago?</p>
<p>This chart presents visually the data on Internet users and addresses the questions raised about them. The regional classification corresponds to that followed by ITU (UN M49). Colors have been chosen based on the Color Brewer qualitative palette that better matches <a href="http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Pages/ITUAroundTheWorld.aspx">ITU's usual colors for regions</a>.</p>
<p>The treemap proposed allows to visually see in which regions and countries most Internet users live. Indeed, from top to bottom and left to right, countries and regions are classified according to the absolute number of Internet users. The size of the treemap is proportional to the global number of Internet users in 2010. As a result, the animation shows graphically how the connected have increased, plus changes in relative rankings within regions. For instance, Saudi Arabia was the third country with most Internet users in the Arab States in 2010, whereas in 2016 it had become the second country with the largest online population in the region.</p>
<p> The map allows to zoom into different regions in order to see in more detail the distribution of Interent users within each region. Moreover, it is possible to see the evolution from one year to another for a specific region. The treemap of each region is sized proportionally to the number of Internet users in the region in 2010. Therefore, the animation shows how Internet users have increased from 2010 to 2016 or, going backwards in time, how they decreased from 2016 to 2010, in each region.</p>
<p> The tooltip adds relative information on each country's online population, such as the absolute increase in Internet users from 2010 to 2016 and the percentage of the population online. The latter information is a relevant complement to the absolute figures, since small countries may actually be very successful in bringing people online and yet occupy a small area in the treemap because of their small population.</p>

<p> The d3.js code and the underlying data (csv format, limited to period 2010-2015) are available at my <a href="https://github.com/ivan-vallejo/Data_Visualization">GitHub account</a>. </p>
